The inventory file in Ansible is a powerful way to manage and query server instances,
especially if you have a lot.
After all, one of the really cool things about Ansible is
that you can make changes to 1,000 servers at a time,
like my previous example.
But let's bring it back down to CICD.
When we're deploying, we're not typically configuring 1,000 servers at once,
it might be only one or a handful.
Why do we need an inventory file for so few?
Well, it just so happens that the inventory file is
a really easy way to target instances even if they're unknown until now,
as is the case when you're provisioning new servers on the fly.
Since the inventory file is only a simple text file,
we can do some clever scripting and get a list of instances from
AWS and append them to the end of our inventory file.
Then when we execute our playbook against our inventory file,
our dynamic instances get configured as they should.
I'm going to run a simple AWS command that queries
the public IP addresses of my instances in AWS,
aws ec2 describe-instances, that's going to get
all of the instances and we're specifically querying the public IP address.
As you can see here, I only have one instance, and that's true.
How did we get that instance into an inventory file?
Well, we could just pipe that into a file like an inventory file,
but we need to have our header above the IP address so that it works for our playbook.
Let's add an inventory file first and then allow
AWS to append to the IP address to our inventory file.
So there I've got an inventory file,
it has all at the top,
and so now let's rerun our AWS command
and actually pipe that out to our inventory file as well.
Done. Let's take a look.
Excellent. So now we have an inventory file with
our all header and it includes our IP address for our instance in AWS.
So now your task is to wrap this process up in
a CICD job so that it's available to us at time of deployment.